- Everyone out there in the live stream.
Hey Brian, hey Guy.
- Hey, howdy howdy.
- Great to have you here.
Looks like some folks are already here.
And Dean, this time we're back on the right schedule for you.
I'd love for the help with the introduction.
Let's see if I can pull that off.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes
where we deliver Python news and headlines
directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 228, recorded April 7th, 2021.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
I'm Brian Okken. And I'm Guy Royce. Hey, Guy. Welcome. Special guest Guy Royce here to be part
of the show this week. Thanks for having me. That's exciting. I know that's what they all say,
right? It's great to have you here, though. You know, we met on a panel at the Python Web
Conference, and we recently had Calvin Hendryx-Parker here from who was organizing that as well.
So, you know, a little bit of a little more Python Web Conference going on. Yeah, it was a good event.
Absolutely. You want to tell folks a bit about yourself before we jump into the topics?
Yeah, sure. You can see my name right here on the screen. But for those listening to the podcast, my name's Guy.
Yes, it's my real name. I sometimes get asked if it's short for something.
It's not, in fact, short for Guy Tholomew. It's actually just my name, Guy.
I work for Redis Labs. I'm a developer advocate there.
And I've been doing developer relations type of work for, you know, I've been paid to do it for about five years.
five years, been doing it unpaid as an unpaid just fan of doing community things for about
10 years on top of that. So a lot of different tech stacks. I'm not really a Python person by
trade. I tend to spend more time in the vile, vile JavaScript space. But I know...
>> The other very popular language these days. >> It is. But I know a lot of different things.
I'm a bit of a generalist, so I do my part as well.
- Fantastic. How do you enjoy being a developer evangelist?
It seems like a really fun job.
- It's, well, I like to joke that the best thing about being a developer
advocate is that it lets me monetize my narcissism.
But the reality of it is, I mean, it's actually a lot more work than you would think.
It is fun, but there's a lot of challenge there.
You know, I spend a lot of my time making content,
advocating with the product group for the ways that we should change Redis and our clients and that kind of stuff.
And also going out and speaking at events.
This obviously has been a very weird year for that.
Yeah, it has.
But that's a lot to balance.
It's actually kind of a lot of hats to wear.
And there's a degree where being a generalist is very useful.
Like today I'm spending a lot of time working on a .NET course.
Helping someone out with that because I've got some .NET experience.
But then I'm doing stuff in JavaScript and then,
"Oh, let's look at graph databases."
I'm just looking at different things.
>> You got dragged into this Python podcast as well?
>> Yeah. Then someone thinks I know
Python and put me on this podcast.
>> You got a couple of good items to talk about.
I think they'll be good.
Cool. Welcome. Brian, you want to kick us off here?
>> Yeah, sure. I can't believe it's already March.
>> Yeah. You're going to say almost March
and it's actually blown out.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
(both laughing)
So here's a article called
How to Make Awesome Python Package in 2021.
And this is, I really love this article
because it's kind of my workflow.
I've just never written it down.
And so I'm really grateful for Anton for writing it down.
Also grateful to John Mitchell on Twitter to post that
so that I could see it.
So it's great.
I really love it.
Anyway, so what is this?
It isn't about how to make an awesome package.
It's all of the extra stuff.
It's the workflow.
So he starts, and he starts just like at the basics,
just stubbing a package.
And I really, actually really like that
this is where you start.
So the start was in using,
just grabbing a directory and stubbing it out,
and then having a dunder init file
in an initial file that just has one function you can call,
just so that it's something there.
And it actually throws a not implemented yet exception,
which is, that's a great thing to throw, right?
And then, pardon the birds.
Anyway.
>> Brian's recorded from Hawaii. He's in the forest, so it's fine.
>> Yeah, he's got a virtual background
to make it look more mundane.
>> More tropical birds, yeah, yeah.
So then using flit to package it up,
and then go ahead and publish, not publish for real,
publish to the test PyPI repository,
which I love this workflow of,
if you're gonna plan on sharing something,
just go ahead and do this right away.
The one thing missing there is,
go ahead and check the real PyPI
to make sure your project name isn't taken already,
or else the test might work, but your real one won't.
So adding that in is a good step.
But then--
- I'm blown away at some of the Python packages
that are still available, like secure, right?
I mean, that's not available now,
but there was a thing that got to just call itself secure.
Like a couple of years ago,
like how is that still a thing, right?
Oh my gosh. - Yeah.
So one of the tricks with doing the test PyPI though
is getting the PyPI RC correct.
So it talks about how to do that.
and then publishing using flip publish.
And then, you know, adding more detail,
like now you actually have to implement it.
So an implementation of something
and then push to the real repository.
And then, you know, then everything else is like extras.
Then he lists them as appendices almost,
like adding a readme and a change log.
And then, you know, linters and testing.
You should maybe test earlier than this,
but setting up talks and make files and cloud building
and the whole gamut.
So this is a really great comprehensive article.
And you can, what I like is you can start at the beginning
and if you're not even publishing publicly,
if you're just publishing in-house,
this still makes sense up to a certain point.
So this is great.
- Yeah, it looks like really good advice.
I love having a well-structured projects where,
if I have a problem or there's something I wanna do,
I know right where to go.
I don't need to go through all the coders.
like here's the 50 lines of code
that could possibly be about this.
Let me go find it and get started.
Guy, what do you think?
- I like that it's an awesome Python package
and it's not about the contents,
it's about the stuff around it.
Right, this is the kind of stuff that is just,
noobs need this, right?
- Yeah.
- It's just, these are exactly the sorts of resources
I like to find.
It's the, here's the canonical way to do this thing well.
- Right, a lot of times the tutorials are like,
well create the one file and that's what you do.
And then off you go.
And I feel like that kind of leads people
down the wrong path a lot of times.
So yeah, love it.
All right, well, I think I got the next one here, Brian.
- Okay.
- Kube Striker, as in Kubernetes.
So this is a security tool for anyone who is running
or being a tenant on a Kubernetes cluster.
So it's really fast way to audit
an existing Kubernetes clusters for best practices.
And like all beautiful repositories,
it has an animated GIF.
So you don't have to read anything.
You just watch it for a little like,
oh, this is what it does.
That's kind of cool.
Maybe I'll use this.
- Yes, we love that.
- For those who are listening,
there's an animated GIF on the screen right now.
- That's right, absolutely.
- You should totally see it, it's amazing.
- Yeah, I mean, sometimes we cover,
there'll be like UI frameworks.
Like, oh, we built this whole UI framework
where you do this thing and there's like no screenshot
there are no way to see what it looks like.
You're like, well, if it's about the UI,
we should probably see some pictures.
So Brian and I are always on a bit of a kick about this.
Yeah, so it performs a bunch of in-depth analysis
on self-hosted Kubernetes on Amazon EKS, Azure EKS,
I suspect pretty much you name it, the EKS.
It'll do it.
Let's see if I can find where it talks
about the things that it does.
Yeah, so it scans your infrastructure, like I said,
It checks for various services and open ports,
tells you if they should or shouldn't be open.
It looks for insecure things or read/write,
or you can even set it up to be read-only
and it can check, you know, give it like lower permissions
and it'll still do that.
It'll look for misconfigured IAM settings,
identity from Azure, sorry, AWS,
misconfigured containers, pod security policies,
network policies, and extra privileges,
all that kind of stuff.
So running containers is pretty easy.
Running containers in Kubernetes is pretty easy.
Running a Kubernetes cluster is not easy.
There's a lot going on if you're the one
running the Kubernetes cluster.
And so here's a really nice tool
that you just point at your cluster and say,
how am I doing?
Right, give it a quick check to see if anything's wrong.
Yeah.
- Yeah, thanks.
You guys, a guy, you do anything with Kubernetes
or Docker, things like that?
- I do basic developer things
that developers tend to do with Docker.
Containerization isn't necessarily my jam.
I mean, you know, I certainly will spin up a Redis instance,
for example, using Docker or something like that,
because that's super convenient.
But beyond using some basic Docker Compose,
I don't do much of anything.
- Yeah, same here.
I feel like every time I start to work with it,
I go, this is really neat,
but it feels like I'm just moving code complexity
to DevOps complexity.
I'm better at code than I'm at DevOps.
So let me not do that.
- You got to write it down somewhere, right?
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- At the end of the day.
- Exactly, exactly.
All right, so Guy, you got this next one here.
This is something I'm pretty excited about.
I'm a big fan of the possibility of WebAssembly.
Sounds like you are as well.
- Yeah, I'm an enormous fan of WebAssembly.
And I mean, there's a couple of reasons for that.
Some of it's that it kind of reminds me
of the early days, like in the 80s
when I was learning programming,
I got into 6502 assembly language.
So that low level machine level coding
has got a nostalgic joy to it.
And so WebAssembly has drawn me in.
If you don't know much about WebAssembly,
just to put context around it,
WebAssembly is byte code for the browser.
That's where it started.
The idea is you can take some code,
write it in C or Rust or some higher level compiled language
And then you get a bunch of byte code,
a binary file that can be downloaded
and run from the browser.
So that's WebAssembly in 30 seconds.
- Yeah, people have done really crazy stuff
with things like asm.js,
where they're like, oh, let's take some code
and send it over to some fancy JavaScript
that then we'll compile it in Java.
And there's just all this wild stuff that you can do.
And it's really, really impressive.
But this is like, you know, if you're gonna do that,
let's make this an actual thing
that's actually expected to be this runtime,
this low level runtime.
Yeah, it's cool.
- Well, and it turns out it's actually
a lot more performant too.
- Yeah.
- I mean, I've seen benchmarks say as much as 20% faster
all the way up to 20 times faster,
but regardless, they always say faster.
- Yeah.
- Which is good.
- And smaller probably, coming down as binary bits
and probably loads faster,
it doesn't have to jet it when it gets there.
- Well, and it's just another file
that can be served from the file server,
so, or from the web server.
So it can be cached and all the other things
that you would do with any web content.
So lots of advantages and optimizations to be had.
- Right, so what's this thing that you're telling us about?
- So WasmTime, it says,
"Hey, we built this bytecode for the browser."
WasmTime said, "You know, what if we put the bytecode
"wherever we want it?"
And so in much the way that Node
brought JavaScript to the server side,
WasmTime brings WebAssembly to the server side
by adding I/O capabilities
and by adding a command line tool that can run it,
by adding run times that you can load up in other languages.
So WasmTime, it's simplest is,
is you've got a WebAssembly module
and you say, "WasmTime space" in that module
on the command line, and it just runs it
and does whatever it does.
- Fantastic.
And there's different languages supported, right?
- Right.
So, and this isn't language support
from a take that language and compile it to WebAssembly.
This is take WebAssembly modules
and run it in those environments.
So in Rust, Python, Go, .NET, and in C,
although it's not listed here on the screen,
there are runtimes that you can load up,
load a WebAssembly module from whatever,
read it from the file system, read it out of whatever,
and instantiate that WebAssembly module and run it.
And so--
- Yeah, so if I found like a cool library,
it happened to be written in Rust,
and it has a WebAssembly version,
I could then use that in Python.
- Absolutely.
I've actually done a WebAssembly text format,
which is the assembly language to go with WebAssembly.
I've used that to compile simple modules
and just like add numbers and stuff like that.
And then loaded that up from Python code
that I actually even run it inside of Redis.
But yeah, so now all of a sudden it brings that,
those compiled chunks of code that are really just data.
You can hand them around any way you want
and bring them into all these different platforms.
That's pretty cool.
- Yeah, this is really neat.
Brian, what do you think?
- Just the intermediate part to where you can have
a group of people,
even if it's not some third party package,
it's just within one company that can write
in whatever language they want to write in
and then have an intermediate language
that you can glue it all together down the pipeline.
I think that just makes people more efficient.
I'd like to see that sort of take off.
I think it's a neat place to go.
- Yeah, Guy, could I use this to say
if I had like a .NET library, a Go library
and a Rust library and I was writing in Python,
could I bring those all together
to interoperate with this thing?
- In theory, I mean, there's a lot of work
involved to do that.
And there are limitations.
Out of the box WebAssembly,
just like out of the box JavaScript
didn't have any kind of IO
because you don't need IO in a browser.
You have fetch, right?
You know, that's all the IO you get.
WebAssembly is the same way,
but WasmTime supports the WASI standard.
All these things start with W,
they're actually kind of hard to say.
(laughing)
And WASI is the WebAssembly Systems Interface,
which gives you a file IO
and will eventually give us network IO.
Right now it will support reading and writing of sockets,
but it won't support opening a socket,
which is tantatizingly frustrating.
(both laughing)
- That extra ability though,
that actually kind of scares me a little bit.
And I'm concerned about the security part,
since you're grabbing some binary blob
or it's a WebAssembly blob, it's still not human readable.
So how do I know it's not going to be a virus
or something like that?
- Yeah, that's actually a totally legitimate concern.
It's honestly echoes the same concerns
that we had with Node.js when it first came out.
It's like, 'cause in the browser,
it's all nice and neat and sandboxed, right?
And as soon as JavaScript escaped the browser
and got onto your server side, everyone's like,
well, but we can pull JavaScript code
and call you Val on it from anywhere.
It's like, well, yeah, you could.
And so it's the same,
I think we end up in the same situation
where it's got the same caveats once we go there.
I guess the advice is don't run strange code.
- Right, yeah.
But these are particularly like a JavaScript,
you can look at it and say, I see what's going here.
And I suppose if it's minified, that's not that easy,
but with WebAssembly, it's actually just bytes.
And it's even harder. It's even more opaque.
- Yeah.
- Yeah. I mean, there's so much stuff going on
in the supply chain space now, right?
PyPI, there was the PHP itself got a backdoor put into it,
but luckily never got into any of the releases.
But yeah, I mean, it's a good concern, Brian,
or a valid, certainly valid concern.
- It is.
It's still cool.
- Yeah, absolutely else.
You know what else is cool, Brian?
- What?
- This episode is brought to you by you and me this time.
So all the cool things we're doing,
I wanna just tell people,
if they wanna take some Python courses,
they can check out talkpython.fm and just click on courses.
And we've got a bunch of new ones
and I'm about to release a brand new free course
that people will be able to check out as well.
Probably I'll be able to talk about that next time,
but it's on the data science side
and that'll be a lot of fun.
And then people want to test things,
they should probably test it with pytest
so they can check out your book as well.
- Yeah, yeah, that'd be great.
I can't wait to get--
- You guys are the best sponsors.
(laughing)
- Thanks.
- Yeah, and I can't wait to get back to conferences
so I can get back to handing out stickers and stuff.
That was so fun.
- That'd be great.
- Yeah, I know.
Imagine that with other people, so crazy.
- Yeah, I hand them to myself,
but you know.
- I'm at risk of becoming agoraphobic at this point.
- Yeah.
- So I wanted to talk about something cool
that Anthony Shaw put together.
So he, I just saw about this.
I think, don't you use Dependabot?
- Oh yeah.
My Monday morning means go in and like close 20 PRs
and about four of them are conflicting with Dependabot
where Dependabot was the other PR
that also did the PR that I had conflict with.
So yeah, I've got this special relationship
but I'm still very glad to have it there
'cause it's fantastic to know.
There's a security problem for this thing, fix it now.
That's really good to know.
- Yeah, so, okay.
So I probably am a bad one to introduce
the Dependabot side.
So this is, we're actually talking about Dependalotbot
but Dependabot, if people haven't heard it
like the 90 times we've talked about it.
Tell me what it does.
It goes out and checks to--
- So it looks at, it supports different languages.
The Python world, that means,
if it sees a requirements.txt,
or it sees like a pyproject.toml or whatever,
it will look in there for pinned versions.
If they're not pinned, it will pin it to the current version
and then submit that change to the requirements.txt as a PR.
- Yeah.
- If they are there and it sees there's a new version
of that library, it will do a PR,
and in the PR, it'll say things like,
here's the change log and all the commits since the last time you used this library.
Here's the release notes around this library. Click this button to apply the new,
you know, upgrade your pinning. So, you know, requests equal, equal, something higher than it is
currently automatically to your system. So that's the job of Dependabot. The thing, the complaint is
that if I've got a requirements.txt file with 30 packages in it, and 10 of them change, I get 10
but I'm not sure that's the case.
I think it's a little bit more complicated.
I think it's more complicated to do that.
But I think it's a little bit more complicated.
And I think it's a little bit more complicated.
dependencies can be automatically figured out and then like say talks so
you're not you're using talks but you're not really using it you're using it to
test and stuff you're not using it for everything so like that's an example and
the depend a lot bot makes sure that the PR request from dependent bot if it
passes the tests it goes ahead and merges it so that's really all it does
And I think that's cool to just because that's what I would do if I got one of those PR requests
I would make sure it all works fine
And then probably in some of them I would probably just push through if I trust the where it comes from and stuff
So yeah, exactly
It's a well-known package. The chances are it's gonna be fine right like Bodo from AWS
Sure, it's fine to take it
Yeah
And especially the tools around your project or you're you're only using a little part of something as long as your test pass
it's probably going to be fine.
Things like updating Django,
you may want to have some more manual procedures for that.
But something, some minor thing,
like I'm only using a fraction of a package,
go ahead and update it and see if the tests pass.
- Yeah, exactly.
I totally agree.
Guy, if OneSpace has more dependencies than Python,
it's got to be JavaScript.
- (laughs) Ain't that the truth.
Yeah.
You know, my interaction would depend about
The vast majority of my repos online are sample codes to go with talks and videos and that kind of stuff.
And I always get to depend about notifications for, hey, this project that you did a year and a half ago that you forgot about.
That tends to be my interaction with depend about, I can see how something like this would be very useful.
I don't know that. I don't know, it might be something I could use to just.
I have to think about those old packages anymore. It seems like this could be really helpful.
- Yeah, exactly.
- I do like that the guy's,
the developer's name is Tony Bologna.
That's a fantastic username, by the way.
(laughing)
- Yeah, he's been on the show.
He's a great friend of the show.
Yeah, it's a good name.
- I've never met him.
I just think that's really funny.
Kudos.
- Yeah, this is really cool.
I wanna check this out.
I'm definitely thinking I'm putting this on my watch.
- I'll probably do it.
Like, for example, things like talks and pytest
and my testing tools and the linters and stuff like that.
I definitely wanna just update those,
like, and try.
And if it doesn't, I'm always gonna update those
if there's a new one and everything passes.
- Yeah, just roll it back if it doesn't work.
Yeah, and Tangentially Related Dean out there says,
he can't seem to be able to pip install -e.bracket extra,
but then he quickly posted his own little fix
that, oh, in Zshell, you got to escape the brackets.
So if anyone else there's trying to do that,
that's great.
Well done on this, Tony, Anthony.
This is really, this could be a dream.
If this works the way it is,
you know, again, I will be so happy.
My Mondays won't be like,
well, here's the next hour merging PRs
and resolving its own self-conflicts.
So I'm excited.
Very cool, all right, well, what is the next one?
I wanna take us a little bit,
like take a step back just a little bit
From low-level tech and talk about the Supreme Court of the United States, right?
I also want to take you back to the early 2000s. I mean, this is like early days in my programming career, honestly
But here we are with a ruling about something that happened in the early 2000s. And what it is that
Way way back Sun created Java
Google would they create I actually whoever created Android I think before Google bought them
Created Android and said, you know, what would be cool is if we could program with this with Java and use the API of
Java so the common ways to like write files and open sockets all that kind of stuff
Just make it exactly what the Java runtime libraries do
But they did not actually take Java. They actually re-implemented it from scratch
So none of the runtime details had anything to do with Java,
but the API, the way you talk to it,
looked just like the Java base class library, standard library.
So Oracle buys Java.
Oracle thinks, "That's not super cool.
We want part of that action."
Sues Google for copyright infringement
by using the Java APIs.
And so then this throws a huge uncertainty
into the space of basically all these libraries, right?
what if I want to create a new web framework
and the way it works is a little bit like Flask,
but it turns out that Flask copyrighted,
the way it uses decorators, app.route or whatever.
And then I get sued.
That seems, I don't know, that seems weird, right?
But basically-- - So does this mean that--
- Yeah, go ahead, Guy.
- So does this mean that,
does the ruling mean that you can't copyright an interface
in essence?
Yes, well, the ruling is interesting
because it didn't actually address the copyright
ability of APIs.
They said potentially they still could be copyrighted.
But the use of the API, as I described it
in the beginning of like, this is the way you talk to it,
not the implementation, but the way you speak to the thing,
they said that that is fair use.
So when things are copyrighted, you're
allowed to speak about them in limited ways.
you're not allowed to take a movie and publish it,
republish it, but you're allowed to take a scene of it
and analyze it and maybe have that soundtrack,
that 30 second soundtrack or something like that.
Right, so that'd be fair use.
And so they said the way in which they're using APIs
is like fair use.
And they talked about the knowledge,
having a thing, you might copyright the thing,
but having knowledge how to operate the thing
that you can't copyright.
So like knowing how to drive a car,
you can't copyright that.
And so having the API without the implementation is kind of like the knowledge of how to operate the thing that the API goes to, but the API itself is fair use, which is pretty interesting. So I guess this just sort of put the bow on it is
the Supreme Court ruled that Oracle suit is dismissed.
They cannot sue Google.
And it stopped actually a huge wave of lawsuits
that would have followed around all sorts
of different things for all different sorts of people.
So I think I'm happy with this.
- I think I am too, actually.
I mean, if I were to sum up everything I just heard,
what I heard is reverse engineering is fair use.
Yes, that sounds about right.
So for example--
- It feels like the Twitter version of this ruling.
- Yeah.
You know, the example that came to mind for me,
and this is the thing,
this exact example that was in the lawsuit,
it seems really clear to me that it shouldn't really,
I don't think that should be a thing.
But on the other hand, you know,
AWS was hosting, like reselling the open source free version
of MongoDB as a service,
without paying any money to the MongoDB folks who actually created and maintained it,
they changed their license. And so what AWS did was
kept the API for MongoDB identical,
but re-implemented the database server in their own
version. I feel like that's a real interesting example. That's a little more
close to the edge. It's like, well, here's an open source project that built something neat.
Here's somebody who was literally running it and taking profits off of it
exactly, and then they sort of changed it to this mode
and now it's okay.
And I think it probably is okay,
although I feel like Redis could get itself
into the same situation probably,
unless the license already explicitly says
that you can't do that.
- The only licenses we have that specifically explicit
that are the ones for the modules, which extend it,
extend Redis.
Redis itself is open source.
And so Amazon does have an implementation of Redis
that they sell.
- Okay, yeah.
Tal out there in the live stream says,
another example would be AWS could sue all the other places
like Linode and DigitalOcean and stuff
that offer S3 compatible storage.
- That's such a good point.
- Yeah, right?
Like both Linode and DigitalOcean have something
that's like S3,
And you literally can talk to it with a Bodo3 API
because it on the surface, it is S3.
And so there's another example of something
that is spared being destroyed in the courts.
- I hope this holds up.
I really want APIs to be something
that you can't copyright.
- I think this is it.
I think this is it.
I mean, it actually Google won
and then it was overturned by a higher court
and then Google won again.
it's overturned by a higher court and it like literally worked its way all the way to the
supreme court and then this is it and the supreme court operates so much on prior rulings and
precedent and stuff that it's very unlikely that it could be changed at this point. The entire
the entire like story of Java is just riddled with these gross lawsuits and it's just I just
have to shake my head about it. It really would be nice if it had a nicer history. I think people
would be, you know, trashing Java a lot less at this point. But yeah, we come up with other reasons,
it wouldn't be a problem. Ben Thompson from Strategory had a really interesting analysis
taking apart what the Supreme Court said. And one of the things they focused on was the meaning and
the essence of copyrights. Like the reason to have copyrights is so that somebody might invest 10
years in something that could easily be copied but doesn't yet exist and sort of drive innovation.
And they talked a lot about, the Supreme Court talked about, does this application of copyright
actually benefit or restrict innovation? And it was interesting that they were actually thinking
in those terms, not just like, well, what is the legal definition of copyright? But they're like,
this would be very harmful to so many people if it went the other way. And so we've got to consider
to that as well.
And let's see, Dean says,
so Java lost this close case.
I guess the case is now public static void.
- It's final.
Yeah.
(laughing)
- Exactly.
Exactly.
Cool. All right.
- We're gonna have a Supreme Court factory.
So, you know.
- Yeah. Yeah.
We've got an I Supreme Court
and the Supreme Court factory generates
I Supreme Court implementations.
- You got a Supreme Court factory manager, yeah.
- Oh my God.
Yeah, that's a, no, I don't know.
That's going a bit down, too far, too far down.
- Yeah, it's a bridge too far, isn't it?
- It definitely is, it definitely is.
All right, Guy, you got the last one here
and I'm not sure I pulled it up.
Let me make sure I got it pulled up here.
Yeah.
Yeah, so you already talked about how you work for Redis
and machine learning is absolutely front and center
in the Python world.
And you guys are doing some interesting stuff there.
You wanna tell us about it?
- Yeah, so I sort of mentioned this earlier,
but it's kind of a good segue is Redis has modules,
which are, you know, things you can use.
They're like plugins to extend what Redis can do.
So you can, there's like a module that's a graph database.
And so now, boom, we got some new types
and some new functionality.
We can do graph databases or time series or whatever.
And one of the modules that Redis Labs,
and this is part of Redis, it's standard,
anyone can create a module.
There are lots of open source ones out there.
Redis Labs has a few that we've created.
One of those is Redis AI.
And Redis AI turns Redis into a model server.
So the idea is that I can take the binary output of a model
in whether it's TensorFlow or whether it's PyTorch
or whether it's an ONNX model.
And for those who don't know what ONNX is,
that's the Open Neural Network Exchange,
which is a standard Microsoft put together for models.
So it's sort of like a universal model standard.
And just like in XKCD, it's like,
there's too many standards,
we need a new one to bring these all together.
ONNX has created yet another standard.
- Exactly.
- This is what always happens, right?
But Redis supports those three model types.
So you can take an ONNX model, for example,
and load it into Redis,
and then you can use Redis commands to execute that model.
It provides a nice little abstraction.
The thing that's cool here, I think,
is that normally if you want to
bring AI into your application as a developer,
you got the data science team,
they do their thing,
they build their models,
and you get these binary files out,
and then you need to bring them into your application some way.
There's a few ways to do that.
You can just wrap it up, you could containerize it,
and make a little flask app around it,
which is a really common solution.
There are other model servers.
You can just put it right in your application,
but then you have to use Python,
which is, well, not a terrible problem,
could sometimes be a problem.
- You're not using Python, you might see it as a,
like, wait a minute, this is gonna be a big change.
- And so the thing that gets me excited about Redis AI,
which is kind of not the thing that gets my bosses excited,
but it's the thing that gets me excited,
is that because we support ONNX,
the data science team can build their model
and convert it to ONNX
and they sort of have a universal standard.
So they can pick whatever tech stack they want,
as long as they can spell out an ONNX model.
And then Redis, being Redis,
it's got a client for every language under the sun.
So if you're, you know, using Haskell, for example,
you know, there's a Redis client for,
I don't know that there's a Redis client for Haskell,
but I would assume there is.
It's odds are there is.
Then you can get to that model
from whatever language you're at,
regardless of what that data science,
how amenable to data science tooling that platform is.
And so it creates a nice architectural layer of abstraction.
And so that's actually what I think is kind of cool
about Redis AI.
It just provides that abstraction
that makes the developers and the data science folks
both not have to, well, speak the same language
in a lot of ways.
- Yeah, that's really neat.
And it sounds to me a lot like what HTTP APIs did
previously, right?
if you wanted to talk to something
instead of directly plugging in that library
or exchanging some binary data,
like, all right, everybody's gonna just agree on JSON.
Why didn't they agree on dates?
But come on, other than that, it's working out just fine.
We're just gonna exchange this
and that'll be the way we can talk to it.
And nobody worries about what language
you're using to consume the API.
It's like, that's your problem.
Hopefully your language has a nice way to do that.
- Yeah, it's a similar thing.
The other thing it does, which I think is kind of interesting,
is that it introduces a new data type.
So the models as inputs and outputs take tensors.
So you can put in a couple of tensors
as input to your model or one or however many you need.
And then your output would be whatever tensors make sense.
And a tensor is just--
I don't know, I think the word tensor is--
I'm going to say pretentious.
I'm probably going to anger a lot of people by saying that.
Because really what a tensor is in practical terms
is just a multi-dimensional array.
You got a tensor that's got a particular shape,
it's just like, well, this is an array
that's 10 by five by three.
And it's made up of ints.
And that's all a tensor is.
And so it sounds all mystical,
but it's really just a multi-dimensional array
that's being handed in.
But because tensors tend to be the things
that are put into and taken out of machine learning models,
Redis AI has a tensor data type.
And so you could use that capability in Redis as well.
If you needed to store multi-dimensional arrays in Redis,
you've got a type that does that now.
And so even if you didn't care about the data science,
the predictive capabilities, the model hosting,
that's the word I'm looking for in Redis AI,
you could still use the tensors
for various data storage uses.
- Yeah. - So.
- Yeah, okay, interesting.
Yeah, so you can kind of hijack the data type as well.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, this looks really interesting.
I think it's, yeah, people should check it out
if they're doing machine learning.
and sharing their models across different technologies
or processes.
- I use multi-dimensional. - Yeah, I'm obviously
excited about it.
(laughs)
- I'm excited 'cause I use multi-dimensional arrays
and now I can call myself a data scientist.
- That's right, there you go.
(laughs)
- Awesome, all right, quick follow up
before we get to the extras and the joke.
- I'm more of a mad data scientist, yeah.
- Yeah. (laughs)
Student Army captain says, "Sorry I'm late.
Doesn't depend about optionally auto merge if CI passes?"
Yes, but you got to have CI running on that project.
And so like, if you've got,
like I have 30, 40 repositories that have courses.
I don't set up CI for the course.
Like what does it even mean to have CI for the courses?
But I get dependent about stuff all the time on that
because it's checking the repository
for the requirements file.
So sometimes you can get it to auto merge,
but there's certainly circumstances where it doesn't.
If it would just put it in one PR,
here's the 10 changes.
I put that actually as a issue on the Pinterbot itself
and people upvoted it,
commented like, "Yes, this please."
But apparently not yet.
Anyway, what Anthony's done is pretty excellent.
Hi, Brian, that's it for all of our main items, right?
Unless I lost track.
- Yeah.
Got any extras you wanna throw out there?
- I don't, I've just been working a lot.
How about you? - I got extras.
I got plenty.
So recently did a cool episode over on Talk Python
about diving into the .git folder
and like all the internals of what git does there
and what all those pieces mean.
If you wanna go in there and look and see how,
basically understand how git itself works
and then all the storage stuff,
like how they all come together.
And one of the things that got a nice shout out there
is gitforwindows@gitforwindows.org.
There's like a special version to install for Git.
I think this actually might've come from Chris Moffett even,
some sort of follow-on conversation or something,
but wherever it came from, if you're doing Windows
and you wanna install Git,
this is kind of a cool way to do it as well
if you're not doing something like Chocolatey.
- I use it every day and it's--
- Git for Windows?
- Yeah, it's a requirement, yeah.
- Nice, yeah, very cool.
JupyterLab 3 is released.
So this one comes to us from Alan Hanson
and thanks for pointing this out.
It's a little bit old, couple of months,
but still very cool that JupyterLab 3 is out.
You can check it out and see all the new changes
that come along, including a debugger.
A debugger, how about that?
Table of contents, multiple languages,
all sorts of cool stuff.
So this looks like a major release.
And if people who love JupyterLab should check it out.
- Won't be too long until it's PyCharm.
(laughing)
Yeah, that's right.
It's on its way.
And speaking of PyCharm, I've got some on that.
Brian Skin also did a follow-up to,
not the previous episode, maybe the one before that,
where we were talking about, like, you know,
really, it's great that,
I think this is when we had Sebastian Ramirez on,
and we were talking about Google
becoming a visionary sponsor of Python, which is great.
And it's really cool that a couple of companies
have done that.
But then we also pointed out that, you know,
Bank of America has insane amounts of stuff
that they depend upon.
JP Morgan Chase, their core trading engine,
some of it is all by,
some of these companies that make huge amounts of money
and fundamentally depend upon Python itself,
generally don't support Python.
I don't know the degree to which those two companies do,
but you don't see them
at the top of those sponsorship lists.
And Google's with something like $300,000 a year.
That's the biggest corporate sponsor in the world.
Right, couldn't we do more?
So Brian Skin said, "Hey, I wrote a letter for people."
And he shared it where it just said,
"As a peer recipient, given the appreciable business value
"that we derive from Python and its related scientific tool
"that never lasts for years,
"at no direct cost to the company,
"would there be room for bracket company
"to contribute financially to the 501(c)(3) organizations
that support these tools.
Here's a list, here's how.
And basically, it wrote a template letter
that you can send to your company decision makers
to help encourage them to support Python
and other open source projects.
So, well done, Brian, that was pretty cool.
All right, Django 3.2 long-term support releases out.
So if you're on a slow roll with Django,
you're ready to roll on the new version.
So this is something you can safely adopt
for the next three years and stay happy,
but on a brand new version of Django, so check that out.
PyCharm, there you go, guy, I told you it would come out.
PyCharm 2021.1 is out,
and they've got some really cool stuff in here,
really neat things,
including the Code With Me stuff is now out.
So Code With Me is, I fire up PyCharm
or any of the IntelliJ-based things,
and I say, "Hey, I would like to say
"Program with Brian, Brian,
"can you help me work on the Python Bytes website?"
So I could send you a link and then we would both have
like Google Docs, but in PyCharm,
like where we see each other typing,
we can follow each other along.
You can debug the code,
but it's running on my machine, for example,
even as voice call, video call,
built into PyCharm alongside that.
- Really? - So.
- It's like a Skype client?
- It actually looks like Skype.
I couldn't be sure 'cause I haven't tried it yet,
but I looked at the UI that you get.
It's like a little, in a panel,
It looks like an embedded Skype.
- Interesting.
- Yeah, yeah.
All right, well, those are all the extra things
for me as well.
- Well, I wanted to bring up,
so you reminded me of the Google fund thing
that when adding, you know,
Google give PSF a bunch of money.
Well, what the PSF is doing with it
is they're hiring a developer.
- Oh, nice.
- I'll drop the link.
So PSF's hiring a developer in residence
to support CPython.
So this is a good thing.
- Yeah, awesome.
That's really cool.
Ding Langsam also says PyCon IL is in a month.
So yeah, awesome.
Check that out.
And then he also asked about,
what about the in-browser PyCharm,
which we did cover,
but that was in some kind of experimental phase.
I would definitely, if possible,
recommend this code with me thing over that.
'Cause then you get the real PyCharm.
It just happens to be like this live exchange.
There's a lot of setup and whatnot.
And it had the, this is a private,
not necessarily private, but this is in a beta,
don't depend on it sort of way.
But this is officially this other thing is released.
Guy, anything else you want to throw out there
for the world, for the listeners while you're here?
- nothing really comes to mind.
But thanks for having me.
I see on our schedule we have a joke coming next.
Is that true?
- We do have a joke coming next.
We actually have two, I believe.
I'm gonna fire up mine first.
fire up mine first. This one comes from...
I have a joke as well, if you don't mind.
Don't worry, it's safe.
Alright, so
Brian, you're a fan of Vim, right?
Yes.
So Anthony Shaw, same Anthony Shaw as the
Pindelop bot
we were just talking about,
wrote a little one-liner
that fits nicely in Twitter.
Vim, the original escape room.
[laughter]
That's an old joke.
I love it though. I love it.
Of course, you put it on April 1st because you got to do something funny then.
All right.
>> Yeah.
>> How about you? You got one here?
>> Yeah, I was just added it.
So this is awesome.
So the H in software development stands for happiness.
>> Nice. Yeah, Dean also just wants to point out that IL is Israel,
which I did think that was, but I wasn't 100% sure.
So I didn't.
- I wasn't sure if that was Israel or Illinois.
- Yeah, yeah.
Israel, perfect.
I would love to go there,
but probably not traveling right now.
- I will get to go there eventually.
That's actually where Redis Labs is headquartered.
- Oh, is it?
Interesting, yeah.
I've had some really great vacations in Tel Aviv,
hanging out on the beach.
I can't wait to get back.
All right, Guy, how about your joke?
- I thought you were excited to go to Illinois.
- Yes.
You know, Chicago would be nice, maybe.
Yeah, nice place.
I just can't wait to get to Peoria.
- Well, I've actually spent a lot of time in Peoria,
but I've probably hit my lifetime limit.
I don't need to go.
I wouldn't take a vacation there.
It's a nice place, but I wouldn't go travel to it.
- Yeah, yeah.
So my joke is, well, it's for you, for you all.
What's a, what be a pirate's favorite programming language?
Pirate's favorite programming language.
C?
- Ah, you ruined it.
(laughing)
- You had to ask me, I'm sorry.
- So the way it's supposed to go is I say,
what would be a pirate's favorite programming language?
And you both simultaneously go R, right?
- R.
- Right, because--
- Oh, yeah.
- And then the response from me is,
you might think it'd be R or maybe,
but his first love would be the C.
- Ah, man.
Oh, and the audience is forced to call on that R.
Should have looked down.
It's it works great live because you know, you get an audience,
they'll shout back the answer.
Yeah.
And because they just can't help themselves.
And then you, you surprise them with the twist.
What was the trick question?
Because R is not a programming language.
Well, it's been nice talking with you, Brian.
(laughing)
I saw what I would wanna work in honestly.
It's, I mean, I know it's popular,
was popular in data science stack, but it's,
I mean, it's got one based arrays.
I mean, that's right up there with VB6.
- I've never even tried it.
I just, I haven't made anybody mad today.
So I needed to fill my quota.
- It does have like web clients and stuff like that.
So you can build web servers.
It's the full fledged language,
but I've never done anything more than attend
a one hour talk on the language.
So.
- Yeah.
Yeah, I haven't either.
All right.
Well, Guy, thanks so much for being here with us.
And Brian, as always, great to chat with you.
- Good to talk.
- Yeah, thanks for having me.
- Yep.
Thanks everyone in the live stream as well.
Bye all.
- See ya.
(laughs)